# yelp
Hi,

My name is Ibrahim Ashfaq. This is my Capstone Project for my Certificate Program in Big Data, Data Analytics, and Predictive Modeling at Chang School. 

Abstract:

Consumer data has become increasingly important for companies to understand. Individual interests and demands vary from one consumer to another. It is essential to filter data and recognize the individual characteristics of customers so that they are more inclined to purchase a product or service. Recommender systems are put in place by creating an algorithm that recognizes different consumer habits and filters them individually. Companies like Netflix and Amazon market recommended movies or products to their customers on a regular basis. The focus for this project is looking into Yelp’s public data and creating an item based collaborative filtering recommendation system. Yelp is a huge platform where consumers review, rate and document their visits to particular restaurants and attractions. Focus will be put on business and user review data to help their client’s find restaurants they would want to visit based on their previous reviews. Data mining and visualization techniques will be touched upon to also understand where highly rated restaurants of certain cuisines are located and the average rating of certain types of restaurants. Then collaborative based filtering will be implemented to create a recommender system that will match the interests of the end consumer to other restaurants that maybe of interest to them. By creating a successful recommendation system, we hope that new and old consumers will be drawn to Yelp for discovering new restaurants that appeal to their interests. 
